# Inheritance-Example
Small assignment for MS539 Programming Concepts course. Created to demonstrate understanding of Inheritance using C#.

Inheritance is the process where one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of its parent object. With this concept, you are able to reuse, extend, or modify attributes and behaviors that is defined in another class. The class that is inheriting the members of another class is the derived class while the class whose members are inherited is the base class. The way I am able to understand inheritance is by connecting it to RPGs. Say you have a base class called hero that has different stats or properties that are the same for all heroes. With this base you could then have derived classes such as warrior or mage that share all the properties with the base but also add on new ones that can even be specific to them.

With that said, my example I have created is a class selection screen similar to what you might find when starting a new character in an RPG. First, I created the base class called 'Hero' and gave it different properties. I also created the class as public so that they can be accessed. Then a method is created called 'Printbase' and this will print all of the values for the base 'Hero' class. After this I created 3 other classes called 'Warrior’, ‘Mage', and 'Thief' and these will all derive from the 'Hero' base class. This just means that they will all take the properties from the base class and copies them into the other classes. I am also able to add on to these values so that we can see an extra message that is unique for each class. For the buttons associated with each class, I added values for the different parameters while also adding the 'Printbase' method. Now when you click any button it will show the stats for the class selected and show an extra message after closing the initial message box. 
